---
layout: post
title: "Algebraic geometry 3"
---


## Exercise 3.1

We consider $$q: \mathbb{A}^{n+1} \to \mathbb{P}^n$$.

Firstly, note that $$q$$ is continuous: Let $$U \subseteq \mathbb{P}^n$$ open. Then we can find a set of homogeneous polynomials $$S$$,
such that $$U = \bigcup_{F \in S}D_+(F)$$. But this means that $$q^{-1}(U)$$ can be written as the same union of $$D(f)$$, so $$q^{-1}(U)$$ is open.

Then, we show that the Zarinksi topology is the finest for $$q$$ to be continuous. Let $$\tau$$ be a topology on $$\mathbb{P}^n$$ such that $$q$$ is continuous. We show that if $$U \in \tau$$, then $$U$$ is open in the Zarinski topology. $$q^{-1}(U)$$ is open, so for some set $$S'$$ it can be written as $$q^{-1}(U) = \cup_{f \in S'}D(f)$$.

Claim: The ideal generated by $$S'$$ is homogeneous. 

Proof: We call this ideal $$I'$$. Let $$f' \in I'$$. Write $$f'= \sum f_j$$ as the sum of it's homogeneous parts. 
Let $$p \in \mathcal{Z}(I')$$. Due to the construction of $$q^{-1}(U)$$, any scalar multiple of $$p$$ is also a zero.
Hence, if we consider the polynomial $$g(x, t) = \sum t^jf_j$$, then the polynomial $$g(p, t)$$ is identically zero, $$f_j(p)=0$$ for 
each zero in $$p$$, so, $$f_j \in I'$$, so $$I'$$ is homogeneous.

Therefore, $$\mathbb{P}^n \setminus U$$ corresponds to a homogeneous ideal, so it's closed, so $$U$$ is open.

Finally, showing that $$q$$ is a morphism. Let $$U \subseteq \mathbb{P}^N$$ open. Let $$f \in \mathcal{O}_{\mathbb{P}^n}(U)$$.

Then we need to show that $$f \circ q: q^{-1}(U) \to k$$ is regular on $$q^{-1}(U) \subseteq \mathbb{A}^{n+1} \setminus \{ O \}$$.

Since $$f$$ is regular, it can be expressed as fraction of homogeneous polynomials on an open subset $$V \subset \mathbb{P}^n$$ around each point  $$P$$ in $$U$$. Expressing it as the same fraction, that means that it is regular at $$q^{-1}(P)$$, using the open subset $$q^{-1}(V)$$.


## Exercise 3.2

(i): Suppose the corresponding ideal is homogeneous, then clearly the zeroes of that ideal are stable under $$\mathbb{G}_m$$.

Suppose the zeroes are stable under $$\mathbb{G}_m$$, then the ideal is homogeneous by the same argument as the claim above.

(ii): Suppose $$Z = Z_1 \cup Z_2$$ is a reduction of $$Z$$, then $$q^{-1}(Z_1) \cup q^{-1}(Z_2)$$ is a reduction of $$q^{-1}(Z)$$.

TODO: Reverse direction

(iii): We start with the inclusion-reversing bijection between $$\{\textrm{closed irreducible subsets of } \mathbb{A}^{n+1}\}$$ and
$$\{ \textrm{prime ideals of } k[x_0, \ldots, x_n]\}$$. Note that $$\{ O \}$$ corresponds with $$S_{>0}$$, so this yields
the bijection between  $$\{\textrm{closed irreducible subsets of } \mathbb{A}^{n+1} \setminus \{ O\}\}$$ and
$$\{ \textrm{prime ideals } \mathfrak{p} \subset k[x_0, \ldots, x_n] \textrm{ with } \mathfrak{p} \neq S_{>0} \}$$.
Then the subsets that are stable under $$\mathbb{G}_m$$ can be identified with subsets of $$\mathrm{P}^n$$. This yields
the bijection $$\{\textrm{closed irreducible subsets of } \mathbb{P}^{n}\}$$ and
$$\{ \textrm{homogeneous prime ideals } \mathfrak{p} \subset k[x_0, \ldots, x_n] \textrm{ with } \mathfrak{p} \neq S_{>0} \}$$




